What is the internet?
the infrastructure that connects every computer

(The Internet is the backbone of the Web, the technical infrastructure that makes the Web possible. At its most basic, the Internet is a large network of computers which communicate all together.)



Cable network:
network = connection of one of more computers
router/switch = tells the various output to wich input should go

local network = home network that connects to a router that connects to other routers connected to other networks

how our router connects to other routers? Modem, it converts binary to electric signals to communicate with telephone infrastrucutre

how can my network access another network? trought isp

how can i find a computer? trought ip

what is the domain name? human name to an ip

intranet , extranet?
intrante= private network
extranet = private network that opens some parts in order to comunicate with stakeholders


what are packets?
the way we send infos trought the internet, we divide the info in packets and then we compose the packets in order to make the info

web page?
A document which can be displayed in a web browser

website?
A collection of web pages which are grouped together and usually connected together in various ways. Often called a "website" or a "site."

web server?
A computer that hosts a website on the Internet.

search engine?
A web service that helps you find other web pages

what is a web browser?
software on pc that enables you to visit websites



client - server?
Clients are the typical web user's internet-connected devices (for example, your computer connected to your Wi-Fi, or your phone connected to your mobile network) and web-accessing software available on those devices (usually a web browser like Firefox or Chrome).

Servers are computers that store webpages, sites, or apps. When a client device wants to access a webpage, a copy of the webpage is downloaded from the server onto the client machine to be displayed in the user's web browser.




What are the part necessary to make communicate client and server?
Your internet connection: Allows you to send and receive data on the web. It's basically like the street between your house and the shop.
TCP/IP: Transmission Control Protocol and Internet Protocol are communication protocols that define how data should travel across the internet. This is like the transport mechanisms that let you place an order, go to the shop, and buy your goods. In our example, this is like a car or a bike (or however else you might get around).
DNS: Domain Name System is like an address book for websites. When you type a web address in your browser, the browser looks at the DNS to find the website's IP address before it can retrieve the website. The browser needs to find out which server the website lives on, so it can send HTTP messages to the right place (see below). This is like looking up the address of the shop so you can access it.
HTTP: Hypertext Transfer Protocol is an application protocol that defines a language for clients and servers to speak to each other. This is like the language you use to order your goods.
Component files: A website is made up of many different files, which are like the different parts of the goods you buy from the shop. These files come in two main types:
Code files: Websites are built primarily from HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, though you'll meet other technologies a bit later.
Assets: This is a collective name for all the other stuff that makes up a website, such as images, music, video, Word documents, and PDFs.


So what happens, exactly?
When you type a web address into your browser (for our analogy that's like walking to the shop):

The browser goes to the DNS server, and finds the real address of the server that the website lives on (you find the address of the shop).
The browser sends an HTTP request message to the server, asking it to send a copy of the website to the client (you go to the shop and order your goods). This message, and all other data sent between the client and the server, is sent across your internet connection using TCP/IP.
If the server approves the client's request, the server sends the client a "200 OK" message, which means "Of course you can look at that website! Here it is", and then starts sending the website's files to the browser as a series of small chunks called data packets (the shop gives you your goods, and you bring them back to your house).
The browser assembles the small chunks into a complete web page and displays it to you (the goods arrive at your door — new shiny stuff, awesome!).


Order in which component files are parsed:
The browser parses the HTML file first, and that leads to the browser recognizing any <link>-element references to external CSS stylesheets and any <script>-element references to scripts.

As the browser parses the HTML, it sends requests back to the server for any CSS files it has found from <link> elements, and any JavaScript files it has found from <script> elements, and from those, then parses the CSS and JavaScript.

The browser generates an in-memory DOM tree from the parsed HTML, generates an in-memory CSSOM structure from the parsed CSS, and compiles and executes the parsed JavaScript.

As the browser builds the DOM tree and applies the styles from the CSSOM tree and executes the JavaScript, a visual representation of the page is painted to the screen, and the user sees the page content and can begin to interact with it.


Packets explained
. What do we mean here? Basically, when data is sent across the web, it is sent in thousands of small chunks. There are multiple reasons why data is sent in small packets. They are sometimes dropped or corrupted, and it's easier to replace small chunks when this happens. Additionally, the packets can be routed along different paths, making the exchange faster and allowing many different users to download the same website at the same time. 


